https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-best-and-efficient-ways-to-learn-algorithms-for-beginners

When I was a student and shifted my origin towards Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA) then, initially I was very confused about the correct learning roadmap which I need to follow to master the DSA skill. I think you are also in the same boat where I used to be and hence, don’t worry because in this post I will clear all your doubts and queries about the learning process of DSA. Even though you are a beginner or advanced in this field, this post will surely help you.

Learning Mindset

Firstly, you should ask yourself why you need to learn DSA and what is the benefit of learning DSA will impact your career. Your learning mindset can be anything like fetching a high-paying job, solving complex real-world problems, helping societies with your skills, etc.

Get rid of fear from Mathematics

The insight problems of DSA or any programming language require you to have a good understanding of Statistics and Mathematics. So, if you fear both of these subjects then, try to get rid of your fear by learning the basics of Statistics and Mathematics to conquer and solve any real-world problem. You just need high school knowledge of both of these subjects.

Programming Language

Learning DSA requires you to have a good knowledge of programming languages. If you have prior knowledge of any programming language then, it is a bonus point for you. If you don’t have them, don’t lose hope because learning any programming language can be completed within a few months.

You can learn any one language from C, C++, Java, or Python. Don’t try to learn multiple languages, rather try to become a master in one language. I would recommend you to start with Python as it is quite easy to understand and implement in problem-solving skills.

Start with the fundamentals of DSA

Now, you have to start learning the fundamental topics of DSA and try to focus on the below topics:

Array and Strings
HashMap and Hashtable
Linked Lists
Stack and Queues
Recursion and Trees
Tuple and Sets
Lists and Two-Dimensional Lists
Priority Queues
Learn the advanced topics of DSA

In the next step, you have to focus on learning the advanced topics of DSA that includes:

Heap
Dynamic Programming
Backtracking
Bit Manipulation
Variations of Tree Graph
Graphs
Object-oriented programming
System design
Take Part in Competitive programming

Till now you have acquired enough knowledge of DSA to take part in problem-solving practice via Competitive programming. You can consult the problems from the below platforms:

Geeks for Geeks
LeetCode
HackerEarth
Code Chef
HackerRank
Coder byte
Take help from Reading

DSA is a vast field and thus, its libraries keep changing frequently. So, to stay updated with the learning process you can read books, blogs, articles, newsletters (if any), etc. This will improve your conceptual learning and will help you to solve complex problems more efficiently.

Practice Problems

Every computer skill learning is incomplete without making the relevant practical experience working out. So, to enhance your learning skills, you have to make you practice problems. This will help you to apply your learning concepts practically.

I hope you have got the roadmap and path for learning DSA with the help of the above steps. But the implementation of the above steps is quite tiresome and will take a good amount of time in the completion of the DSA field if you are a sole learner. You have to learn from books and other resources on your own and There will be no one who will guide you through this exhaustive learning process and if you are stuck in a few topics.

Thus, I would highly recommend you to join a reputed training institute like Tutort Academy that offers the best courses, guidance, mentorship, and learner-friendly support at an affordable price.

Key Features offered by Tutort Academy

Course Selectivity

Tutort Academy offers courses in the field of computer science learning skills including Data Structures and Algorithms, Data Science, Machine Learning, and Artificial Intelligence courses at a nominal fees range. You can select any one of them according to your needs and convenience.

Course Adaptability

The courses are highly made for working professionals who want to switch their career paths in top product-based companies. It is because the majority of the tech giants always hire those candidates who have working experience in relevant fields.

Course Comprehensiveness

The courses are designed and structured by the graduates of top IITs, NITs, and IIMs industry experts of FAANG companies. The course content is focused on delivering skilled learning both conceptually and practically with in-hand expertise with tools and techniques to meet the industry demands. Learning Medium

The courses are delivered via online live classes conducted every weekend by top industry experts. Each course comes with over 300+ hours of curated content that imparts a quality learning process for every learner. A small batch size of 35 students is made for each class so that the educator can focus on every learner. This also helps the learner to engage with the class without any disturbance.

Learning Resources

The online live classes give the feel of live virtual classes that helps the learner to interact and engage with the educator comprehensively. A free 1-year flexible pass along with a lifetime accessible LMS portal is offered to every learner with 24/7 teaching assistance, practice labs, applied industry-oriented projects, community forums, high-quality study materials, assignments, quizzes, and mock tests.

Post Course Completion Engagement

Tutort Academy offers a dedicated program for assisting the learners after the completion of the course. The industry experts organize mock interview preparations guidance, resume reviewing, resume building, and networking facilitates of every learner for placement assistance.

Placement Assistance

Tutort Academy offers a high return of investment placement assistance for every learner with their external collaborations from over 30+ top MNCs and start-ups.

So, if you are looking to learn DSA more efficiently with the right guidance, support, and placement assistance at a pocket-friendly price then, join Tutort Academy without any regret.

Hopefully this will help you!!!
